.nh
.TH cidr 8

.SH NAME
.PP
cidr \- tool for checking IPs against CIDR blocks


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
cidr


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A CLI tool that is useful for quickly checking and filtering data by IP vs. CIDR blocks.

.PP
The 'check'' command allows for a quick check of a list of IPs and Blocks.

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ cidr check \-\-blocks 172.12.0.0/16,172.10.0.0/16 \-\-ips 172.12.1.56,171.10.123.57,172.10.0.255/32
172.12.1.56/32 is in CIDR 172.12.0.0/16
171.10.123.57/32 is NOT in CIDR set
172.10.0.255/32 is in CIDR 172.10.0.0/16

.fi
.RE

.PP
The 'filter' command is useful for filtering large data sets like access log files.

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ cidr filter \-\-blocks 10.2.120.0/8,10.2.122.0/8,10.20.128.20/29 \-\-path '/var/log/http/**/access*.log'
< outputs to STDOUT all lines that contain an IP that is within a CIDR blocks provided >

.fi
.RE

.PP
The 'filter' command can also be used with a pipe.

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ cidr filter \-\-blocks 10.2.120.0/8,10.2.122.0/8,10.20.128.20/29 < /var/log/http/access\-20220120\-18.log
< outputs to STDOUT all lines that contain an IP that is within a CIDR blocks provided >

.fi
.RE

.PP
Finally, the 'filter' command accepts the '\-\-inverse, i' flag which will output all lines that DO NOT contain
an IP within a CIDR block provided. If a line has multiple IP addresses within it, then ALL IPs must not be within
a CIDR block for the line to be output to STDOUT.

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ cidr filter \-\-blocks 10.2.120.0/8,10.2.122.0/8,10.20.128.20/29 \-\-path '/var/log/http/**/access*.log' \-\-inverse
< outputs to STDOUT all lines that DO NOT contain an IP that is within a CIDR blocks provided >

.fi
.RE


.SH COMMAND TREE
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
check, c
\[la]#check-c\[ra]
.IP \(bu 2
filter, f
\[la]#filter-f\[ra]
.IP \(bu 2
version, v
\[la]#version-v\[ra]

.RE

.PP
\fBUsage\fP:

.PP
.RS

.nf
cidr [GLOBAL OPTIONS] command [COMMAND OPTIONS] [ARGUMENTS...]

.fi
.RE


.SH COMMANDS
.SH check, c
.PP
Check IP against range of CIDR blocks

.PP
.RS

.nf
IPs that are provided without a mask will be assumed to be /32

CIDR blocks require a mask be provided.

.fi
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-blocks, \-b\fP="": CIDR blocks to be checked (csv)

.PP
\fB\-\-ips, \-i\fP="": CSV list of IPs with masks (csv)

.SH filter, f
.PP
Filters lines in log files of pipe input

.PP
.RS

.nf
Filters lines in log files of pipe input, printing to STDOUT the lines that
contain an IP that is within the provided CIDR blocks.

NOTE: If '\-\-path, \-p' is NOT set, then a pipe is assumed to be the input.

The '\-\-inverse, \-i' flag will output the lines that do not contain an IP
within the provided CIDR blocks. 

.fi
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-blocks, \-b\fP="": CIDR blocks to be checked (csv)

.PP
\fB\-\-inverse, \-i\fP: Print out lines that DO NOT match the CIDR check

.PP
\fB\-\-path, \-p\fP="": File path to files to filter, can be a glob. If not set, a pipe is assumed.

.SH version, v
.PP
Print version info

